Peter J. Polidoro

U.S. Citizen

EMAIL ADDRESS
  peterpolidoro@gmail.com

WEB PAGE
  http://projects.peterpolidoro.net/

OBJECTIVE
I am very interested in mechatronics, robotics, programming, control systems, automation, robot and computer operating systems and architecture, machine vision and learning, 3D modeling and rendering, solar energy and optics, digital photography and video editing, web page design, data acquisition experiments, and open source software and hardware.  I enjoy working at a systems level, integrating software and electronics with mechanical devices.

EDUCATION
MS Systems Engineering, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, Jan 2001
  Concentration: Smart Product Design, Manufacturing, Control Systems
BS Mechanical Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, May 1999 
  Concentration: Mechanical Systems 

EXPERIENCE
Scientific Software and Mechanical Engineer (Dickinson Lab), California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, 2007 to Present
I write software and design and build robotic machines for research scientists aimed at understanding the neurobiology and biomechanics of fruit flies, including real-time video tracking of flying and walking animals, real-time control of various actuators including servo-motors and video display systems, and off-line image analysis and machine vision. I constructed a robotic insect wing hinge to study the aerodynamics of insect flight.

Research and Development Engineer, Idealab, Pasadena, CA, 2004 to 2007
Created prototypes of mechanical and electrical devices (including tracking solar concentrators), performed data acquisition experiments, consulted for Idealab operating companines, wrote simulation and control system software.  Co-authored a patent on a camera-based heliostat measurement system.

Mechatronics Engineer, Seagull Solutions Inc., Morgan Hill, CA, 2001 to 2004 
Designed, built, integrated, and/or fixed many electrical/mechanical/pneumatic/software systems, including servo motor controllers and PLC automation, used to support the hard disk drive manufacturing industry.  Experimentally studied and tested dynamics of air bearing spindles and wrote several research papers on the subject.

Research and Development Engineering Intern, General Motors Technical Center, Warren, MI, Summer 2000
Experimentally studied material property changes of steel throughout a hydroforming manufacturing process.  Co-authored a paper published in Metallurgical and Materials Transaction.

Engineering Co-op, Cummins Engine Company Inc., Jamestown, NY, Fall 1997 and Summer 1998
Designed and constructed machines used to support diesel engine assembly line production.

SKILLS
GNU/Linux, Emacs, C, Python, Git, Kicad, Solidworks, HTML, POV-Ray, Embedded Atmel AVR microcontrollers
Mechanical design and analysis, analog and digital circuit and control systems design, printed circuit board design, PLC and other motion controller programming, machine tool operation and CNC programming

